hey guys that Steve said today I'm going
to show you how to reverse sear some
bone-in ribeyes on a ceramic amato so
let's go ahead and get started
alright guys so I've got a couple
massive bone-in ribeyes here that I got
from a local farmer and when it comes to
cooking a nice quality steak what I like
to do is just take some kosher salt and
I like to get these salted at least 45
minutes to an hour beforehand and what
salting does is it essentially pulls
moisture from inside of the steak but
then the salt melts on top of the
surface and then that gets reabsorbed
back into the meat so essentially what
we're doing here is kind of like a you
know we're just brining these steaks and
so you can look online do a google
search and you'll see various methods
some people salt right before they cook
some salt for just 10-15 minutes but
I've read a lot of really good articles
on just the importance of letting these
things sit for at least 45 minutes to an
hour the flavors just gonna be a lot
better after it's reabsorbed all that
salt into the meat so we're gonna go
ahead and just let these sit for about
an hour maybe an hour and a half and
then we'll pick back up all right guys
I'm gonna walk you through my setup for
this reverse here so I've just got my
little lighter cubes started we're gonna
get the fire going here so the first
step of this reverse sear is cooking
over indirect heat until the internal
temperature the steaks gets up to about
95 to 100 degrees so when we go ahead
and install my main cooking rack on my
grill D'Amato here once the grill dome
is preheated to about 225 250 we'll be
cooking the ribeyes indirect right here
in the center and then I'll remove the
pizza stone and then we'll cook direct
over a searing tempo you know six seven
hundred degrees our rib eyes have been
sitting
for just over an hour you can see how
the surface is nice and wet that's where
that salt was melted by the juices you
know inside the moisture inside the
steak and then it's been pulled back
down all I'm gonna do now because I'm
getting ready to grill these it just
sprinkle some black pepper on both sides
alright we've got both sides lightly
coated here and we'll pick back up
outside of the grill all right guys the
grill dome is stabilized out at 250 so
I'm going to go ahead and get these rib
eyes on for the first portion of this
reverse here which is the indirect
amazing-looking bone-in ribeyes here get
an idea it's for these to be directly
over the ceramic stones so we're in a
complete indirect setup and then I'm
gonna take this food probe and try to
get into the one of the thicker parts of
the meat right here it's good right
there and I'm gonna keep a close eye on
these alright guys my Maverick is
reading a hundred so we're gonna go
ahead and open this and check it in a
few different spots with the Thurmond
pin which is going to be more accurate
so we're at 93 there 93 there 96 there
100 there 100 there
let's go back over to this one 98 and 95
so I'm gonna go ahead and pull these and
then what I'm gonna do is take out our
ceramic stone and I'm gonna put the
grill grates up on this top rock and
then get this thing ripping up to about
7 800 degrees alright guys I've got the
grill dome cranked up to about 700
degrees with the grill grates installed
onto the main cooking
most important thing you Kamat owners
already know this but for those of you
that don't have one you want to make
sure you burp it like this just kind of
slightly open it let a lot of that real
hot air and steam get out before you
open it all the way you can see this
fire is just absolutely raging and all
we're gonna do is about twenty to thirty
seconds then I'll rotate them for some
nice sear marks and then we'll flip them
hey it's been 30 seconds burp it
rotate these about 45 degrees another 30
seconds then we'll flip them okay it's
been another 30 seconds so we're gonna
burp it y'all hot this motto get and
we're gonna flip these guys over see
those awesome sear marks they're amazing
and I'm gonna continue this process so
30 seconds and I'll rotate them 45
degrees okay so after rotating them 45
degrees it's now been another minute on
this second side so one minute total per
side for a total two minutes of a sear
and we're going to go ahead and pull
these and take them into the kitchen and
let them rest for five to ten minutes
all right so I have let these rib eyes
rests for ten minutes you can see the
awesome sear marks here and so I'm just
gonna go ahead and cut into this guy and
check that out hopefully you can see
that good came out pretty much a perfect
medium-rare nice warm red center there
nice crust on the outside
go ahead and try this mmm
hmm oh my gosh that is absolutely
amazing so good let me show you another
little bite there real quick look how
good that came out I love this reverse
sear technique mm-hmm
man I'm so good guys so definitely check
out this method and again you know this
is a little bit more advanced method but
just try it a couple times and then this
will probably become your go-to method
for cooking some good steak so
appreciate you guys watching and hope
this video was beneficial to you of the
gift give me a like and a subscribe to
my channel and I will see you again soon
you